# Built-in Functions

在Python解释器中内置了许多始终可用的函数和类型。他们按字母顺序列在这里。

|                                  |                                  | Built-in Functions            |                                    |                                   |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| [`abs()`](####abs(x))            | [`delattr()`](#delattr)          | [`hash()`](#hash)             | [`memoryview()`](#func-memoryview) | [`set()`](#func-set)              |
| [`all()`](####all(iterable))     | [`dict()`](#func-dict)           | [`help()`](#help)             | [`min()`](#min)                    | [`setattr()`](#setattr)           |
| [`any()`](####any(iterable))     | [`dir()`](#dir)                  | [`hex()`](#hex)               | [`next()`](#next)                  | [`slice()`](#slice)               |
| [`ascii()`](####ascii(object))   | [`divmod()`](#divmod)            | [`id()`](#id)                 | [`object()`](#object)              | [`sorted()`](#sorted)             |
| [`bin()`](####bin(x))            | [`enumerate()`](#enumerate)      | [`input()`](#input)           | [`oct()`](#oct)                    | [`staticmethod()`](#staticmethod) |
| [`bool()`](#### class bool([x])) | [`eval()`](#eval)                | [`int()`](#int)               | [`open()`](#open)                  | [`str()`](#func-str)              |
| [`breakpoint()`](#breakpoint)    | [`exec()`](#exec)                | [`isinstance()`](#isinstance) | [`ord()`](#ord)                    | [`sum()`](#sum)                   |
| [`bytearray()`](#func-bytearray) | [`filter()`](#filter)            | [`issubclass()`](#issubclass) | [`pow()`](#pow)                    | [`super()`](#super)               |
| [`bytes()`](#func-bytes)         | [`float()`](#float)              | [`iter()`](#iter)             | [`print()`](#print)                | [`tuple()`](#func-tuple)          |
| [`callable()`](#callable)        | [`format()`](#format)            | [`len()`](#len)               | [`property()`](#property)          | [`type()`](#type)                 |
| [`chr()`](#chr)                  | [`frozenset()`](#func-frozenset) | [`list()`](#func-list)        | [`range()`](#func-range)           | [`vars()`](#vars)                 |
| [`classmethod()`](#classmethod)  | [`getattr()`](#getattr)          | [`locals()`](#locals)         | [`repr()`](#repr)                  | [`zip()`](#zip)                   |
| [`compile()`](#compile)          | [`globals()`](#globals)          | [`map()`](#map)               | [`reversed()`](#reversed)          | [`__import__()`](#__import__)     |
| [`complex()`](#complex)          | [`hasattr()`](#hasattr)          | [`max()`](#max)               | [`round()`](#round)                |                                   |

#### `abs`(*x*) 

 返回一个数字的绝对值。它的参数可以是整数或浮点数。如果参数是复数，则返回其大小 (模大小)。如果 `x` 定义[`__abs__ ()`](), `abs`(*x*) 返回 `x.__abs__ ()`。



#### `all`(*iterable*) 

如果迭代对象的所有元素都为真 (或迭代对象是空的)，则返回 `True`，等价于：

```python
def all(iterable):
    for element in iterable:
        if not element:
            return False
    return True
```

#### `any`(*iterable*) 

只要迭代对象的任意元素为真，则返回 `True`； 如果迭代对象是空的，则返回 `False`，等价于：

```python
def all(iterable):
    for element in iterable:
        if element:
            return True
    return False
```

#### `ascii`(*object*)

作为repr()，返回一个包含对象可打印表示形式的字符串，但是使用\x、\u或\u转义来转义repr()返回的字符串中的非ascii字符。这将生成一个类似于Python 2中repr()返回的字符串。

As [`repr()`](#repr), return a string containing a printable  representation of an object, but escape the non-ASCII characters in the string  returned by [`repr()`](#repr) using `\x`, `\u` or `\U` escapes.  This generates a string similar to that returned by [`repr()`](#repr) in Python 2.

#### `bin`(*x*) 

  Convert an integer number to a binary string prefixed with “0b”. The result  is a valid Python expression. If *x* is not a Python [`int`](#int) object, it has to define an [`__index__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__) method that returns an integer. Some  examples: `>>> bin(3) '0b11' >>> bin(-10) '-0b1010' ` If prefix “0b” is desired or not, you can use either of the following  ways. `>>> format(14, '#b'), format(14, 'b') ('0b1110', '1110') >>> f'{14:#b}', f'{14:b}' ('0b1110', '1110') ` See also [`format()`](#format) for more information.

#### *class* `bool`([*x*]) 

  Return a Boolean value, i.e. one of `True` or `False`.  *x* is converted using the standard [truth testing  procedure](stdtypes.html#truth). If *x* is false or omitted, this returns `False`;  otherwise it returns `True`. The [`bool`](#bool) class is a subclass of [`int`](#int) (see [Numeric Types — int,  float, complex](stdtypes.html#typesnumeric)). It cannot be subclassed further. Its only instances  are `False` and `True` (see [Boolean Values](stdtypes.html#bltin-boolean-values)). Changed in version 3.7:  *x* is now a positional-only parameter.

## `breakpoint`(**args*, ***kws*) 

  This function drops you into the debugger at the call site. Specifically, it  calls [`sys.breakpointhook()`](sys.html#sys.breakpointhook), passing `args` and  `kws`  straight through. By default, `sys.breakpointhook()` calls [`pdb.set_trace()`](pdb.html#pdb.set_trace) expecting no arguments. In this  case, it is purely a convenience function so you don’t have to explicitly import  [`pdb`](pdb.html#module-pdb) or type as much code to enter the debugger.  However, [`sys.breakpointhook()`](sys.html#sys.breakpointhook) can be set to some other  function and [`breakpoint()`](#breakpoint) will automatically call that, allowing  you to drop into the debugger of choice. Raises an [auditing event](sys.html#auditing)  `builtins.breakpoint` with argument `breakpointhook`. New in version  3.7.



## *class* `bytearray`([*source*[, *encoding*[, *errors*]]]) 

  Return a new array of bytes. The [`bytearray`](stdtypes.html#bytearray) class is a mutable sequence of integers in  the range 0 <= x < 256. It has most of the usual methods of mutable  sequences, described in [Mutable Sequence  Types](stdtypes.html#typesseq-mutable), as well as most methods that the [`bytes`](stdtypes.html#bytes) type has, see [Bytes and Bytearray  Operations](stdtypes.html#bytes-methods). The optional *source* parameter can be used to initialize the array in  a few different ways:  If it is a *string*, you must also give the *encoding* (and  optionally, *errors*) parameters; [`bytearray()`](stdtypes.html#bytearray) then converts the string to bytes using  [`str.encode()`](stdtypes.html#str.encode). If it is an *integer*, the array will have that size and will be  initialized with null bytes. If it is an object conforming to the *buffer* interface, a read-only  buffer of the object will be used to initialize the bytes array. If it is an *iterable*, it must be an iterable of integers in the  range `0 <= x <  256`, which are used as the initial contents of the  array. Without an argument, an array of size 0 is created. See also [Binary Sequence Types — bytes, bytearray,  memoryview](stdtypes.html#binaryseq) and [Bytearray  Objects](stdtypes.html#typebytearray).



## *class* `bytes`([*source*[, *encoding*[, *errors*]]]) 

  Return a new “bytes” object, which is an immutable sequence of integers in  the range `0  <= x < 256`. [`bytes`](stdtypes.html#bytes) is an immutable version of [`bytearray`](stdtypes.html#bytearray) – it has the same non-mutating methods and  the same indexing and slicing behavior. Accordingly, constructor arguments are interpreted as for [`bytearray()`](stdtypes.html#bytearray). Bytes objects can also be created with literals, see [String and Bytes literals](../reference/lexical_analysis.html#strings). See also [Binary Sequence Types — bytes, bytearray,  memoryview](stdtypes.html#binaryseq), [Bytes  Objects](stdtypes.html#typebytes), and [Bytes and Bytearray  Operations](stdtypes.html#bytes-methods).

## `callable`(*object*) 

  Return [`True`](constants.html#True) if the *object* argument appears  callable, [`False`](constants.html#False) if not. If this returns `True`, it is  still possible that a call fails, but if it is `False`,  calling *object* will never succeed. Note that classes are callable  (calling a class returns a new instance); instances are callable if their class  has a [`__call__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__call__) method. New in version 3.2: This function  was first removed in Python 3.0 and then brought back in Python  3.2.

## `chr`(*i*) 

  Return the string representing a character whose Unicode code point is the  integer *i*. For example, `chr(97)`  returns the string `'a'`, while `chr(8364)`  returns the string `'€'`. This is the inverse of [`ord()`](#ord). The valid range for the argument is from 0 through 1,114,111 (0x10FFFF in  base 16). [`ValueError`](exceptions.html#ValueError) will be raised if *i* is outside  that range.

## `@``classmethod` 

  Transform a method into a class method. A class method receives the class as implicit first argument, just like an  instance method receives the instance. To declare a class method, use this  idiom: `class C:    @classmethod    def f(cls, arg1, arg2, ...): ... ` The `@classmethod` form is a function [decorator](../glossary.html#term-decorator) – see [Function definitions](../reference/compound_stmts.html#function) for details. A class method can be called either on the class (such as `C.f()`) or on  an instance (such as `C().f()`). The instance is ignored except for its class.  If a class method is called for a derived class, the derived class object is  passed as the implied first argument. Class methods are different than C++ or Java static methods. If you want  those, see [`staticmethod()`](#staticmethod). For more information on class methods, see [The standard  type hierarchy](../reference/datamodel.html#types).

## `compile`(*source*, *filename*, *mode*, *flags=0*, *dont_inherit=False*, *optimize=-1*) 

  Compile the *source* into a code or AST object. Code objects can be  executed by [`exec()`](#exec) or [`eval()`](#eval). *source* can either be a normal  string, a byte string, or an AST object. Refer to the [`ast`](ast.html#module-ast) module documentation for information on how to  work with AST objects. The *filename* argument should give the file from which the code was  read; pass some recognizable value if it wasn’t read from a file (`''` is commonly used). The *mode* argument specifies what kind of code must be compiled; it  can be `'exec'` if *source* consists of a sequence of  statements, `'eval'` if it consists of a single expression, or `'single'` if  it consists of a single interactive statement (in the latter case, expression  statements that evaluate to something other than `None` will be  printed). The optional arguments *flags* and *dont_inherit* control which  [future statements](../reference/simple_stmts.html#future) affect the compilation of  *source*. If neither is present (or both are zero) the code is compiled  with those future statements that are in effect in the code that is calling [`compile()`](#compile). If the *flags* argument is given  and *dont_inherit* is not (or is zero) then the future statements  specified by the *flags* argument are used in addition to those that  would be used anyway. If *dont_inherit* is a non-zero integer then the  *flags* argument is it – the future statements in effect around the call  to compile are ignored. Future statements are specified by bits which can be bitwise ORed together to  specify multiple statements. The bitfield required to specify a given feature  can be found as the `compiler_flag` attribute on the `_Feature` instance in the [`__future__`](__future__.html#module-__future__) module. The optional argument *flags* also controls whether the compiled  source is allowed to contain top-level `await`, `async for` and `async with`. When the bit `ast.PyCF_ALLOW_TOP_LEVEL_AWAIT` is set, the return code  object has `CO_COROUTINE` set in `co_code`, and  can be interactively executed via `await eval(code_object)`. The argument *optimize* specifies the optimization level of the  compiler; the default value of `-1` selects the optimization level of the interpreter as  given by [`-O`](../using/cmdline.html#cmdoption-o) options. Explicit levels are `0` (no  optimization; `__debug__` is true), `1` (asserts  are removed, `__debug__` is false) or `2` (docstrings  are removed too). This function raises [`SyntaxError`](exceptions.html#SyntaxError) if the compiled source is invalid, and  [`ValueError`](exceptions.html#ValueError) if the source contains null bytes. If you want to parse Python code into its AST representation, see [`ast.parse()`](ast.html#ast.parse). Raises an [auditing event](sys.html#auditing) `compile` with  arguments `source` and `filename`.  This event may also be raised by implicit compilation.  Note When compiling a string with multi-line code in `'single'` or  `'eval'`  mode, input must be terminated by at least one newline character. This is to  facilitate detection of incomplete and complete statements in the [`code`](code.html#module-code) module. Warning It is possible to crash the Python interpreter with a sufficiently  large/complex string when compiling to an AST object due to stack depth  limitations in Python’s AST compiler. Changed in version 3.2: Allowed  use of Windows and Mac newlines. Also input in `'exec'` mode  does not have to end in a newline anymore. Added the *optimize*  parameter. Changed in version 3.5:  Previously, [`TypeError`](exceptions.html#TypeError) was raised when null bytes were  encountered in *source*. New in version 3.8: `ast.PyCF_ALLOW_TOP_LEVEL_AWAIT` can now be passed in  flags to enable support for top-level `await`, `async for`, and `async with`.

## *class* `complex`([*real*[, *imag*]]) 

  Return a complex number with the value *real* + *imag**1j or  convert a string or number to a complex number. If the first parameter is a  string, it will be interpreted as a complex number and the function must be  called without a second parameter. The second parameter can never be a string.  Each argument may be any numeric type (including complex). If *imag* is  omitted, it defaults to zero and the constructor serves as a numeric conversion  like [`int`](#int) and [`float`](#float). If both arguments are omitted, returns `0j`. For a general Python object `x`, `complex(x)` delegates to `x.__complex__()`. If `__complex__()`  is not defined then it falls back to [`__float__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__float__). If `__float__()`  is not defined then it falls back to [`__index__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__). Note When converting from a string, the string must not contain whitespace around  the central `+` or `-` operator. For example, `complex('1+2j')` is fine, but `complex('1 + 2j')` raises [`ValueError`](exceptions.html#ValueError). The complex type is described in [Numeric Types — int,  float, complex](stdtypes.html#typesnumeric). Changed in version 3.6: Grouping  digits with underscores as in code literals is allowed. Changed in version 3.8: Falls  back to [`__index__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__) if [`__complex__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__complex__) and [`__float__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__float__) are not defined.

## `delattr`(*object*, *name*) 

  This is a relative of [`setattr()`](#setattr). The arguments are an object and a string.  The string must be the name of one of the object’s attributes. The function  deletes the named attribute, provided the object allows it. For example, `delattr(x, 'foobar')` is equivalent to `del x.foobar`.



## *class* `dict`(***kwarg*) 

## *class* `dict`(*mapping*, ***kwarg*) 

## *class* `dict`(*iterable*, ***kwarg*) 

  Create a new dictionary. The [`dict`](stdtypes.html#dict) object is the dictionary class. See [`dict`](stdtypes.html#dict) and [Mapping Types —  dict](stdtypes.html#typesmapping) for documentation about this class. For other containers see the built-in [`list`](stdtypes.html#list), [`set`](stdtypes.html#set), and [`tuple`](stdtypes.html#tuple) classes, as well as the [`collections`](collections.html#module-collections) module.

## `dir`([*object*]) 

  Without arguments, return the list of names in the current local scope. With  an argument, attempt to return a list of valid attributes for that object. If the object has a method named [`__dir__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__dir__), this method will be called and must  return the list of attributes. This allows objects that implement a custom [`__getattr__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__getattr__) or [`__getattribute__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__getattribute__) function to customize the way [`dir()`](#dir) reports their attributes. If the object does not provide [`__dir__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__dir__), the function tries its best to gather  information from the object’s [`__dict__`](stdtypes.html#object.__dict__) attribute, if defined, and from its type  object. The resulting list is not necessarily complete, and may be inaccurate  when the object has a custom [`__getattr__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__getattr__). The default [`dir()`](#dir) mechanism behaves differently with different  types of objects, as it attempts to produce the most relevant, rather than  complete, information:  If the object is a module object, the list contains the names of the module’s  attributes. If the object is a type or class object, the list contains the names of its  attributes, and recursively of the attributes of its bases. Otherwise, the list contains the object’s attributes’ names, the names of its  class’s attributes, and recursively of the attributes of its class’s base  classes. The resulting list is sorted alphabetically. For example: `>>> import struct >>> dir()   # show the names in the module namespace   ['__builtins__', '__name__', 'struct'] >>> dir(struct)   # show the names in the struct module  ['Struct', '__all__', '__builtins__', '__cached__', '__doc__', '__file__', '__initializing__', '__loader__', '__name__', '__package__', '_clearcache', 'calcsize', 'error', 'pack', 'pack_into', 'unpack', 'unpack_from'] >>> class Shape: ...     def __dir__(self): ...         return ['area', 'perimeter', 'location'] >>> s = Shape() >>> dir(s) ['area', 'location', 'perimeter'] ` Note Because [`dir()`](#dir) is supplied primarily as a convenience for use  at an interactive prompt, it tries to supply an interesting set of names more  than it tries to supply a rigorously or consistently defined set of names, and  its detailed behavior may change across releases. For example, metaclass  attributes are not in the result list when the argument is a  class.

## `divmod`(*a*, *b*) 

  Take two (non complex) numbers as arguments and return a pair of numbers  consisting of their quotient and remainder when using integer division. With  mixed operand types, the rules for binary arithmetic operators apply. For  integers, the result is the same as `(a // b, a % b)`. For floating point numbers  the result is `(q, a % b)`, where *q* is usually `math.floor(a / b)` but may be 1 less than that.  In any case `q  * b + a % b` is  very close to *a*, if `a % b` is  non-zero it has the same sign as *b*, and `0 <= abs(a %  b) < abs(b)`.

## `enumerate`(*iterable*, *start=0*) 

  Return an enumerate object. *iterable* must be a sequence, an [iterator](../glossary.html#term-iterator), or some other object which  supports iteration. The [`__next__()`](stdtypes.html#iterator.__next__) method of the iterator returned by [`enumerate()`](#enumerate) returns a tuple containing a count (from  *start* which defaults to 0) and the values obtained from iterating over  *iterable*. `>>> seasons = ['Spring', 'Summer', 'Fall', 'Winter'] >>> list(enumerate(seasons)) [(0, 'Spring'), (1, 'Summer'), (2, 'Fall'), (3, 'Winter')] >>> list(enumerate(seasons, start=1)) [(1, 'Spring'), (2, 'Summer'), (3, 'Fall'), (4, 'Winter')] ` Equivalent to: `def enumerate(sequence, start=0):    n = start    for elem in sequence:        yield n, elem        n += 1 `

## `eval`(*expression*[, *globals*[, *locals*]]) 

  The arguments are a string and optional globals and locals. If provided,  *globals* must be a dictionary. If provided, *locals* can be any  mapping object. The *expression* argument is parsed and evaluated as a Python  expression (technically speaking, a condition list) using the *globals*  and *locals* dictionaries as global and local namespace. If the  *globals* dictionary is present and does not contain a value for the key  `__builtins__`, a reference to the dictionary of the  built-in module [`builtins`](builtins.html#module-builtins) is inserted under that key before  *expression* is parsed. This means that *expression* normally has  full access to the standard [`builtins`](builtins.html#module-builtins) module and restricted environments are  propagated. If the *locals* dictionary is omitted it defaults to the  *globals* dictionary. If both dictionaries are omitted, the expression is  executed with the *globals* and *locals* in the environment where  [`eval()`](#eval) is called. Note, *eval()* does not  have access to the [nested  scopes](../glossary.html#term-nested-scope) (non-locals) in the enclosing environment. The return value is the result of the evaluated expression. Syntax errors are  reported as exceptions. Example: `>>> x = 1 >>> eval('x+1') 2 ` This function can also be used to execute arbitrary code objects (such as  those created by [`compile()`](#compile)). In this case pass a code object instead  of a string. If the code object has been compiled with `'exec'` as the  *mode* argument, [`eval()`](#eval)’s return value will be `None`. Hints: dynamic execution of statements is supported by the [`exec()`](#exec) function. The [`globals()`](#globals) and [`locals()`](#locals) functions returns the current global and  local dictionary, respectively, which may be useful to pass around for use by [`eval()`](#eval) or [`exec()`](#exec). See [`ast.literal_eval()`](ast.html#ast.literal_eval) for a function that can safely  evaluate strings with expressions containing only literals. Raises an [auditing event](sys.html#auditing) `exec` with the  code object as the argument. Code compilation events may also be raised.



## `exec`(*object*[, *globals*[, *locals*]]) 

  This function supports dynamic execution of Python code. *object* must  be either a string or a code object. If it is a string, the string is parsed as  a suite of Python statements which is then executed (unless a syntax error  occurs). [1](#id2) If it  is a code object, it is simply executed. In all cases, the code that’s executed  is expected to be valid as file input (see the section “File input” in the  Reference Manual). Be aware that the [`return`](../reference/simple_stmts.html#return) and [`yield`](../reference/simple_stmts.html#yield) statements may not be used outside of function  definitions even within the context of code passed to the [`exec()`](#exec) function. The return value is `None`. In all cases, if the optional parts are omitted, the code is executed in the  current scope. If only *globals* is provided, it must be a dictionary  (and not a subclass of dictionary), which will be used for both the global and  the local variables. If *globals* and *locals* are given, they are  used for the global and local variables, respectively. If provided,  *locals* can be any mapping object. Remember that at module level,  globals and locals are the same dictionary. If exec gets two separate objects as  *globals* and *locals*, the code will be executed as if it were  embedded in a class definition. If the *globals* dictionary does not contain a value for the key `__builtins__`,  a reference to the dictionary of the built-in module [`builtins`](builtins.html#module-builtins) is inserted under that key. That way you  can control what builtins are available to the executed code by inserting your  own `__builtins__` dictionary into *globals* before  passing it to [`exec()`](#exec). Raises an [auditing event](sys.html#auditing) `exec` with the  code object as the argument. Code compilation events may also be raised.  Note The built-in functions [`globals()`](#globals) and [`locals()`](#locals) return the current global and local  dictionary, respectively, which may be useful to pass around for use as the  second and third argument to [`exec()`](#exec). Note The default *locals* act as described for function [`locals()`](#locals) below: modifications to the default  *locals* dictionary should not be attempted. Pass an explicit  *locals* dictionary if you need to see effects of the code on  *locals* after function [`exec()`](#exec) returns.

## `filter`(*function*, *iterable*) 

  Construct an iterator from those elements of *iterable* for which  *function* returns true. *iterable* may be either a sequence, a  container which supports iteration, or an iterator. If *function* is  `None`,  the identity function is assumed, that is, all elements of *iterable*  that are false are removed. Note that `filter(function, iterable)` is  equivalent to the generator expression `(item for item in iterable if function(item))` if function is not `None` and  `(item for item in iterable if item)` if function is `None`. See [`itertools.filterfalse()`](itertools.html#itertools.filterfalse) for the complementary  function that returns elements of *iterable* for which *function*  returns false.

## *class* `float`([*x*]) 

  Return a floating point number constructed from a number or string  *x*. If the argument is a string, it should contain a decimal number, optionally  preceded by a sign, and optionally embedded in whitespace. The optional sign may  be `'+'`  or `'-'`;  a `'+'`  sign has no effect on the value produced. The argument may also be a string  representing a NaN (not-a-number), or a positive or negative infinity. More  precisely, the input must conform to the following grammar after leading and  trailing whitespace characters are removed:`**sign**           ::=  "+" | "-" **infinity**       ::=  "Infinity" | "inf" **nan**            ::=  "nan" **numeric_value**  ::=  floatnumber | infinity | nan **numeric_string** ::=  [sign] numeric_value ` Here `floatnumber` is the form of a Python floating-point  literal, described in [Floating point literals](../reference/lexical_analysis.html#floating). Case is not significant,  so, for example, “inf”, “Inf”, “INFINITY” and “iNfINity” are all acceptable  spellings for positive infinity. Otherwise, if the argument is an integer or a floating point number, a  floating point number with the same value (within Python’s floating point  precision) is returned. If the argument is outside the range of a Python float,  an [`OverflowError`](exceptions.html#OverflowError) will be raised. For a general Python object `x`, `float(x)` delegates to `x.__float__()`. If `__float__()`  is not defined then it falls back to [`__index__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__). If no argument is given, `0.0` is returned. Examples: `>>> float('+1.23') 1.23 >>> float('   -12345\n') -12345.0 >>> float('1e-003') 0.001 >>> float('+1E6') 1000000.0 >>> float('-Infinity') -inf ` The float type is described in [Numeric Types — int,  float, complex](stdtypes.html#typesnumeric). Changed in version 3.6: Grouping  digits with underscores as in code literals is allowed. Changed in version 3.7:  *x* is now a positional-only parameter. Changed in version 3.8: Falls  back to [`__index__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__) if [`__float__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__float__) is not defined.



## `format`(*value*[, *format_spec*]) 

  Convert a *value* to a “formatted” representation, as controlled by  *format_spec*. The interpretation of *format_spec* will depend on  the type of the *value* argument, however there is a standard formatting  syntax that is used by most built-in types: [Format Specification  Mini-Language](string.html#formatspec). The default *format_spec* is an empty string which usually gives the  same effect as calling [`str(value)`](stdtypes.html#str). A call to `format(value, format_spec)` is  translated to `type(value).__format__(value, format_spec)` which bypasses the instance dictionary when  searching for the value’s [`__format__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__format__) method. A [`TypeError`](exceptions.html#TypeError) exception is raised if the method search  reaches [`object`](#object) and the *format_spec* is non-empty, or  if either the *format_spec* or the return value are not strings. Changed in version 3.4: `object().__format__(format_spec)` raises [`TypeError`](exceptions.html#TypeError) if *format_spec* is not an empty  string.



## *class* `frozenset`([*iterable*]) 

  Return a new [`frozenset`](stdtypes.html#frozenset) object, optionally with elements taken  from *iterable*. `frozenset` is a built-in class. See [`frozenset`](stdtypes.html#frozenset) and [Set Types — set,  frozenset](stdtypes.html#types-set) for documentation about this class. For other containers see the built-in [`set`](stdtypes.html#set), [`list`](stdtypes.html#list), [`tuple`](stdtypes.html#tuple), and [`dict`](stdtypes.html#dict) classes, as well as the [`collections`](collections.html#module-collections) module.

## `getattr`(*object*, *name*[, *default*]) 

  Return the value of the named attribute of *object*. *name*  must be a string. If the string is the name of one of the object’s attributes,  the result is the value of that attribute. For example, `getattr(x, 'foobar')` is equivalent to `x.foobar`. If  the named attribute does not exist, *default* is returned if provided,  otherwise [`AttributeError`](exceptions.html#AttributeError) is raised.

## `globals`() 

  Return a dictionary representing the current global symbol table. This is  always the dictionary of the current module (inside a function or method, this  is the module where it is defined, not the module from which it is  called).

## `hasattr`(*object*, *name*) 

  The arguments are an object and a string. The result is `True` if the  string is the name of one of the object’s attributes, `False` if not.  (This is implemented by calling `getattr(object, name)` and seeing  whether it raises an [`AttributeError`](exceptions.html#AttributeError) or not.)

## `hash`(*object*) 

  Return the hash value of the object (if it has one). Hash values are  integers. They are used to quickly compare dictionary keys during a dictionary  lookup. Numeric values that compare equal have the same hash value (even if they  are of different types, as is the case for 1 and 1.0). Note For objects with custom [`__hash__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__hash__) methods, note that [`hash()`](#hash) truncates the return value based on the bit  width of the host machine. See [`__hash__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__hash__) for details.

## `help`([*object*]) 

  Invoke the built-in help system. (This function is intended for interactive  use.) If no argument is given, the interactive help system starts on the  interpreter console. If the argument is a string, then the string is looked up  as the name of a module, function, class, method, keyword, or documentation  topic, and a help page is printed on the console. If the argument is any other  kind of object, a help page on the object is generated. Note that if a slash(/) appears in the parameter list of a function, when  invoking [`help()`](#help), it means that the parameters prior to the  slash are positional-only. For more info, see [the FAQ entry on positional-only parameters](../faq/programming.html#faq-positional-only-arguments). This function is added to the built-in namespace by the [`site`](site.html#module-site) module. Changed in version 3.4: Changes  to [`pydoc`](pydoc.html#module-pydoc) and [`inspect`](inspect.html#module-inspect) mean that the reported signatures for  callables are now more comprehensive and consistent.

## `hex`(*x*) 

  Convert an integer number to a lowercase hexadecimal string prefixed with  “0x”. If *x* is not a Python [`int`](#int) object, it has to define an [`__index__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__) method that returns an integer. Some  examples: `>>> hex(255) '0xff' >>> hex(-42) '-0x2a' ` If you want to convert an integer number to an uppercase or lower hexadecimal  string with prefix or not, you can use either of the following ways: `>>> '%#x' % 255, '%x' % 255, '%X' % 255 ('0xff', 'ff', 'FF') >>> format(255, '#x'), format(255, 'x'), format(255, 'X') ('0xff', 'ff', 'FF') >>> f'{255:#x}', f'{255:x}', f'{255:X}' ('0xff', 'ff', 'FF') ` See also [`format()`](#format) for more information. See also [`int()`](#int) for converting a hexadecimal string to an  integer using a base of 16. Note To obtain a hexadecimal string representation for a float, use the [`float.hex()`](stdtypes.html#float.hex) method.

## `id`(*object*) 

  Return the “identity” of an object. This is an integer which is guaranteed to  be unique and constant for this object during its lifetime. Two objects with  non-overlapping lifetimes may have the same [`id()`](#id) value. **CPython implementation detail:** This is the address of the  object in memory.

## `input`([*prompt*]) 

  If the *prompt* argument is present, it is written to standard output  without a trailing newline. The function then reads a line from input, converts  it to a string (stripping a trailing newline), and returns that. When EOF is  read, [`EOFError`](exceptions.html#EOFError) is raised. Example: `>>> s = input('--> ')   --> Monty Python's Flying Circus >>> s   "Monty Python's Flying Circus" ` If the [`readline`](readline.html#module-readline) module was loaded, then [`input()`](#input) will use it to provide elaborate line  editing and history features. Raises an [auditing event](sys.html#auditing) `builtins.input` with argument `prompt` before  reading input  Raises an auditing event `builtins.input/result` with the result after successfully  reading input.

## *class* `int`([*x*]) 

## *class* `int`(*x*, *base=10*) 

  Return an integer object constructed from a number or string *x*, or  return `0` if no arguments are given. If *x* defines [`__int__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__int__), `int(x)`  returns `x.__int__()`. If *x* defines [`__index__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__), it returns `x.__index__()`. If *x* defines [`__trunc__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__trunc__), it returns `x.__trunc__()`. For floating point numbers, this  truncates towards zero. If *x* is not a number or if *base* is given, then *x*  must be a string, [`bytes`](stdtypes.html#bytes), or [`bytearray`](stdtypes.html#bytearray) instance representing an [integer literal](../reference/lexical_analysis.html#integers) in radix *base*.  Optionally, the literal can be preceded by `+` or `-` (with no  space in between) and surrounded by whitespace. A base-n literal consists of the  digits 0 to n-1, with `a` to `z` (or `A` to `Z`) having values 10 to 35. The default *base* is  10. The allowed values are 0 and 2–36. Base-2, -8, and -16 literals can be  optionally prefixed with `0b`/`0B`, `0o`/`0O`, or `0x`/`0X`, as with integer literals in code. Base 0 means to  interpret exactly as a code literal, so that the actual base is 2, 8, 10, or 16,  and so that `int('010', 0)` is not legal, while  `int('010')` is, as well as `int('010', 8)`. The integer type is described in [Numeric Types — int,  float, complex](stdtypes.html#typesnumeric). Changed in version 3.4: If  *base* is not an instance of [`int`](#int) and the *base* object has a [`base.__index__`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__) method, that method is called to  obtain an integer for the base. Previous versions used [`base.__int__`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__int__) instead of [`base.__index__`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__). Changed in version 3.6: Grouping  digits with underscores as in code literals is allowed. Changed in version 3.7:  *x* is now a positional-only parameter. Changed in version 3.8: Falls  back to [`__index__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__) if [`__int__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__int__) is not defined.

## `isinstance`(*object*, *classinfo*) 

  Return `True` if the *object* argument is an instance of  the *classinfo* argument, or of a (direct, indirect or [virtual](../glossary.html#term-abstract-base-class)) subclass thereof. If  *object* is not an object of the given type, the function always returns  `False`.  If *classinfo* is a tuple of type objects (or recursively, other such  tuples), return `True` if *object* is an instance of any of the  types. If *classinfo* is not a type or tuple of types and such tuples, a  [`TypeError`](exceptions.html#TypeError) exception is raised.

## `issubclass`(*class*, *classinfo*) 

  Return `True` if *class* is a subclass (direct, indirect  or [virtual](../glossary.html#term-abstract-base-class)) of *classinfo*. A class is  considered a subclass of itself. *classinfo* may be a tuple of class  objects, in which case every entry in *classinfo* will be checked. In any  other case, a [`TypeError`](exceptions.html#TypeError) exception is raised.

## `iter`(*object*[, *sentinel*]) 

  Return an [iterator](../glossary.html#term-iterator) object. The first argument is  interpreted very differently depending on the presence of the second argument.  Without a second argument, *object* must be a collection object which  supports the iteration protocol (the [`__iter__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__iter__) method), or it must support the sequence  protocol (the [`__getitem__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__getitem__) method with integer arguments starting  at `0`).  If it does not support either of those protocols, [`TypeError`](exceptions.html#TypeError) is raised. If the second argument,  *sentinel*, is given, then *object* must be a callable object. The  iterator created in this case will call *object* with no arguments for  each call to its [`__next__()`](stdtypes.html#iterator.__next__) method; if the value returned is equal to  *sentinel*, [`StopIteration`](exceptions.html#StopIteration) will be raised, otherwise the value  will be returned. See also [Iterator Types](stdtypes.html#typeiter). One useful application of the second form of [`iter()`](#iter) is to build a block-reader. For example,  reading fixed-width blocks from a binary database file until the end of file is  reached: `from functools import partial with open('mydata.db', 'rb') as f:    for block in iter(partial(f.read, 64), b''):        process_block(block) `

## `len`(*s*) 

  Return the length (the number of items) of an object. The argument may be a  sequence (such as a string, bytes, tuple, list, or range) or a collection (such  as a dictionary, set, or frozen set).



## *class* `list`([*iterable*]) 

  Rather than being a function, [`list`](stdtypes.html#list) is actually a mutable sequence type, as  documented in [Lists](stdtypes.html#typesseq-list)  and [Sequence Types — list, tuple,  range](stdtypes.html#typesseq).

## `locals`() 

  Update and return a dictionary representing the current local symbol table.  Free variables are returned by [`locals()`](#locals) when it is called in function blocks, but  not in class blocks. Note that at the module level, [`locals()`](#locals) and [`globals()`](#globals) are the same dictionary. Note The contents of this dictionary should not be modified; changes may not  affect the values of local and free variables used by the  interpreter.

## `map`(*function*, *iterable*, *...*) 

  Return an iterator that applies *function* to every item of  *iterable*, yielding the results. If additional *iterable*  arguments are passed, *function* must take that many arguments and is  applied to the items from all iterables in parallel. With multiple iterables,  the iterator stops when the shortest iterable is exhausted. For cases where the  function inputs are already arranged into argument tuples, see [`itertools.starmap()`](itertools.html#itertools.starmap).

## `max`(*iterable*, ***[, *key*, *default*]) 

## `max`(*arg1*, *arg2*, **args*[, *key*]) 

  Return the largest item in an iterable or the largest of two or more  arguments. If one positional argument is provided, it should be an [iterable](../glossary.html#term-iterable). The largest item in the iterable  is returned. If two or more positional arguments are provided, the largest of  the positional arguments is returned. There are two optional keyword-only arguments. The *key* argument  specifies a one-argument ordering function like that used for [`list.sort()`](stdtypes.html#list.sort). The *default* argument specifies  an object to return if the provided iterable is empty. If the iterable is empty  and *default* is not provided, a [`ValueError`](exceptions.html#ValueError) is raised. If multiple items are maximal, the function returns the first one  encountered. This is consistent with other sort-stability preserving tools such  as `sorted(iterable, key=keyfunc, reverse=True)[0]` and `heapq.nlargest(1,  iterable, key=keyfunc)`. New in version 3.4: The  *default* keyword-only argument. Changed in version 3.8: The  *key* can be `None`.



## `memoryview`(*obj*) 

  Return a “memory view” object created from the given argument. See [Memory Views](stdtypes.html#typememoryview) for more information.

## `min`(*iterable*, ***[, *key*, *default*]) 

## `min`(*arg1*, *arg2*, **args*[, *key*]) 

  Return the smallest item in an iterable or the smallest of two or more  arguments. If one positional argument is provided, it should be an [iterable](../glossary.html#term-iterable). The smallest item in the iterable  is returned. If two or more positional arguments are provided, the smallest of  the positional arguments is returned. There are two optional keyword-only arguments. The *key* argument  specifies a one-argument ordering function like that used for [`list.sort()`](stdtypes.html#list.sort). The *default* argument specifies  an object to return if the provided iterable is empty. If the iterable is empty  and *default* is not provided, a [`ValueError`](exceptions.html#ValueError) is raised. If multiple items are minimal, the function returns the first one  encountered. This is consistent with other sort-stability preserving tools such  as `sorted(iterable, key=keyfunc)[0]`  and `heapq.nsmallest(1, iterable, key=keyfunc)`. New in version 3.4: The  *default* keyword-only argument. Changed in version 3.8: The  *key* can be `None`.

## `next`(*iterator*[, *default*]) 

  Retrieve the next item from the *iterator* by calling its [`__next__()`](stdtypes.html#iterator.__next__) method. If *default* is given, it  is returned if the iterator is exhausted, otherwise [`StopIteration`](exceptions.html#StopIteration) is raised.

## *class* `object` 

  Return a new featureless object. [`object`](#object) is a base for all classes. It has the methods  that are common to all instances of Python classes. This function does not  accept any arguments. Note [`object`](#object) does *not* have a [`__dict__`](stdtypes.html#object.__dict__), so you can’t assign arbitrary attributes  to an instance of the [`object`](#object) class.

## `oct`(*x*) 

  Convert an integer number to an octal string prefixed with “0o”. The result  is a valid Python expression. If *x* is not a Python [`int`](#int) object, it has to define an [`__index__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__index__) method that returns an integer. For  example: `>>> oct(8) '0o10' >>> oct(-56) '-0o70' ` If you want to convert an integer number to octal string either with prefix  “0o” or not, you can use either of the following ways. `>>> '%#o' % 10, '%o' % 10 ('0o12', '12') >>> format(10, '#o'), format(10, 'o') ('0o12', '12') >>> f'{10:#o}', f'{10:o}' ('0o12', '12') ` See also [`format()`](#format) for more information.

## `open`(*file*, *mode='r'*, *buffering=-1*, *encoding=None*, *errors=None*, *newline=None*, *closefd=True*, *opener=None*) 

  Open *file* and return a corresponding [file  object](../glossary.html#term-file-object). If the file cannot be opened, an [`OSError`](exceptions.html#OSError) is raised. *file* is a [path-like object](../glossary.html#term-path-like-object) giving the pathname  (absolute or relative to the current working directory) of the file to be opened  or an integer file descriptor of the file to be wrapped. (If a file descriptor  is given, it is closed when the returned I/O object is closed, unless  *closefd* is set to `False`.) *mode* is an optional string that specifies the mode in which the file  is opened. It defaults to `'r'` which means open for reading in text mode. Other  common values are `'w'` for writing (truncating the file if it already  exists), `'x'` for exclusive creation and `'a'` for  appending (which on *some* Unix systems, means that *all* writes  append to the end of the file regardless of the current seek position). In text  mode, if *encoding* is not specified the encoding used is platform  dependent: `locale.getpreferredencoding(False)` is called to get the  current locale encoding. (For reading and writing raw bytes use binary mode and  leave *encoding* unspecified.) The available modes are:    Character Meaning  `'r'` open for reading (default)  `'w'` open for writing, truncating the file first  `'x'` open for exclusive creation, failing if the file already exists  `'a'` open for writing, appending to the end of the file if it exists  `'b'` binary mode  `'t'` text mode (default)  `'+'` open for updating (reading and writing) The default mode is `'r'` (open for reading text, synonym of `'rt'`). Modes  `'w+'`  and `'w+b'` open and truncate the file. Modes `'r+'` and  `'r+b'`  open the file with no truncation. As mentioned in the [Overview](io.html#io-overview), Python  distinguishes between binary and text I/O. Files opened in binary mode  (including `'b'` in the *mode* argument) return contents as [`bytes`](stdtypes.html#bytes) objects without any decoding. In text mode  (the default, or when `'t'` is included in the *mode* argument), the  contents of the file are returned as [`str`](stdtypes.html#str), the bytes having been first decoded using a  platform-dependent encoding or using the specified *encoding* if  given. There is an additional mode character permitted, `'U'`, which no  longer has any effect, and is considered deprecated. It previously enabled [universal newlines](../glossary.html#term-universal-newlines) in text mode, which  became the default behaviour in Python 3.0. Refer to the documentation of the [newline](#open-newline-parameter) parameter for further details. Note Python doesn’t depend on the underlying operating system’s notion of text  files; all the processing is done by Python itself, and is therefore  platform-independent. *buffering* is an optional integer used to set the buffering policy.  Pass 0 to switch buffering off (only allowed in binary mode), 1 to select line  buffering (only usable in text mode), and an integer > 1 to indicate the size  in bytes of a fixed-size chunk buffer. When no *buffering* argument is  given, the default buffering policy works as follows:  Binary files are buffered in fixed-size chunks; the size of the buffer is  chosen using a heuristic trying to determine the underlying device’s “block  size” and falling back on [`io.DEFAULT_BUFFER_SIZE`](io.html#io.DEFAULT_BUFFER_SIZE). On many systems, the buffer  will typically be 4096 or 8192 bytes long. “Interactive” text files (files for which [`isatty()`](io.html#io.IOBase.isatty) returns `True`) use  line buffering. Other text files use the policy described above for binary  files. *encoding* is the name of the encoding used to decode or encode the  file. This should only be used in text mode. The default encoding is platform  dependent (whatever [`locale.getpreferredencoding()`](locale.html#locale.getpreferredencoding) returns), but any [text encoding](../glossary.html#term-text-encoding) supported by Python can be  used. See the [`codecs`](codecs.html#module-codecs) module for the list of supported  encodings. *errors* is an optional string that specifies how encoding and  decoding errors are to be handled—this cannot be used in binary mode. A variety  of standard error handlers are available (listed under [Error Handlers](codecs.html#error-handlers)), though any error handling name  that has been registered with [`codecs.register_error()`](codecs.html#codecs.register_error) is also valid. The standard  names include:  `'strict'` to raise a [`ValueError`](exceptions.html#ValueError) exception if there is an encoding error.  The default value of `None` has the same effect. `'ignore'` ignores errors. Note that ignoring encoding  errors can lead to data loss. `'replace'` causes a replacement marker (such as `'?'`) to be  inserted where there is malformed data. `'surrogateescape'` will represent any incorrect bytes as  code points in the Unicode Private Use Area ranging from U+DC80 to U+DCFF. These  private code points will then be turned back into the same bytes when the `surrogateescape` error handler is used when writing data.  This is useful for processing files in an unknown encoding. `'xmlcharrefreplace'` is only supported when writing to a  file. Characters not supported by the encoding are replaced with the appropriate  XML character reference `&#nnn;`. `'backslashreplace'` replaces malformed data by Python’s  backslashed escape sequences. `'namereplace'` (also only supported when writing)  replaces unsupported characters with `\N{...}`  escape sequences. *newline* controls  how [universal newlines](../glossary.html#term-universal-newlines) mode works (it only  applies to text mode). It can be `None`, `''`, `'\n'`, `'\r'`, and  `'\r\n'`.  It works as follows:  When reading input from the stream, if *newline* is `None`,  universal newlines mode is enabled. Lines in the input can end in `'\n'`, `'\r'`, or  `'\r\n'`,  and these are translated into `'\n'` before being returned to the caller. If it is `''`, universal  newlines mode is enabled, but line endings are returned to the caller  untranslated. If it has any of the other legal values, input lines are only  terminated by the given string, and the line ending is returned to the caller  untranslated. When writing output to the stream, if *newline* is `None`, any  `'\n'`  characters written are translated to the system default line separator, [`os.linesep`](os.html#os.linesep). If *newline* is `''` or `'\n'`, no  translation takes place. If *newline* is any of the other legal values,  any `'\n'` characters written are translated to the given  string. If *closefd* is `False` and a file descriptor rather than a filename was  given, the underlying file descriptor will be kept open when the file is closed.  If a filename is given *closefd* must be `True` (the  default) otherwise an error will be raised. A custom opener can be used by passing a callable as *opener*. The  underlying file descriptor for the file object is then obtained by calling  *opener* with (*file*, *flags*). *opener* must  return an open file descriptor (passing [`os.open`](os.html#os.open) as *opener* results in functionality  similar to passing `None`). The newly created file is [non-inheritable](os.html#fd-inheritance). The following example uses the [dir_fd](os.html#dir-fd) parameter of  the [`os.open()`](os.html#os.open) function to open a file relative to a  given directory: `>>> import os >>> dir_fd = os.open('somedir', os.O_RDONLY) >>> def opener(path, flags): ...     return os.open(path, flags, dir_fd=dir_fd) ... >>> with open('spamspam.txt', 'w', opener=opener) as f: ...     print('This will be written to somedir/spamspam.txt', file=f) ... >>> os.close(dir_fd)  # don't leak a file descriptor ` The type of [file  object](../glossary.html#term-file-object) returned by the [`open()`](#open) function depends on the mode. When [`open()`](#open) is used to open a file in a text mode (`'w'`, `'r'`, `'wt'`, `'rt'`, etc.),  it returns a subclass of [`io.TextIOBase`](io.html#io.TextIOBase) (specifically [`io.TextIOWrapper`](io.html#io.TextIOWrapper)). When used to open a file in a  binary mode with buffering, the returned class is a subclass of [`io.BufferedIOBase`](io.html#io.BufferedIOBase). The exact class varies: in read  binary mode, it returns an [`io.BufferedReader`](io.html#io.BufferedReader); in write binary and append binary  modes, it returns an [`io.BufferedWriter`](io.html#io.BufferedWriter), and in read/write mode, it  returns an [`io.BufferedRandom`](io.html#io.BufferedRandom). When buffering is disabled, the  raw stream, a subclass of [`io.RawIOBase`](io.html#io.RawIOBase), [`io.FileIO`](io.html#io.FileIO), is returned. See also the file handling modules, such as, [`fileinput`](fileinput.html#module-fileinput), [`io`](io.html#module-io) (where [`open()`](#open) is declared), [`os`](os.html#module-os), [`os.path`](os.path.html#module-os.path), [`tempfile`](tempfile.html#module-tempfile), and [`shutil`](shutil.html#module-shutil). Raises an [auditing event](sys.html#auditing)  `open`  with arguments `file`, `mode`, `flags`. The `mode` and `flags`  arguments may have been modified or inferred from the original call.  Changed in version 3.3:   The *opener* parameter was added. The `'x'` mode was added. [`IOError`](exceptions.html#IOError) used to be raised, it is now an alias of [`OSError`](exceptions.html#OSError). [`FileExistsError`](exceptions.html#FileExistsError) is now raised if the file opened in  exclusive creation mode (`'x'`) already  exists.  Changed in version 3.4:   The file is now non-inheritable. Deprecated since version 3.4, will be removed in  version 3.9: The `'U'` mode.  Changed in version 3.5:   If the system call is interrupted and the signal handler does not raise an  exception, the function now retries the system call instead of raising an [`InterruptedError`](exceptions.html#InterruptedError) exception (see [**PEP 475**](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0475) for  the rationale). The `'namereplace'` error handler was  added.  Changed in version 3.6:   Support added to accept objects implementing [`os.PathLike`](os.html#os.PathLike). On Windows, opening a console buffer may return a subclass of [`io.RawIOBase`](io.html#io.RawIOBase) other than [`io.FileIO`](io.html#io.FileIO).

## `ord`(*c*) 

  Given a string representing one Unicode character, return an integer  representing the Unicode code point of that character. For example, `ord('a')`  returns the integer `97` and `ord('€')` (Euro sign) returns `8364`. This is  the inverse of [`chr()`](#chr).

## `pow`(*base*, *exp*[, *mod*]) 

  Return *base* to the power *exp*; if *mod* is present,  return *base* to the power *exp*, modulo *mod* (computed  more efficiently than `pow(base, exp) %  mod`). The two-argument form `pow(base, exp)` is equivalent to using the power operator: `base**exp`. The arguments must have numeric types. With mixed operand types, the coercion  rules for binary arithmetic operators apply. For [`int`](#int) operands, the result has the same type as the  operands (after coercion) unless the second argument is negative; in that case,  all arguments are converted to float and a float result is delivered. For  example, `10**2` returns `100`, but  `10**-2`  returns `0.01`. For [`int`](#int) operands *base* and *exp*, if  *mod* is present, *mod* must also be of integer type and  *mod* must be nonzero. If *mod* is present and *exp* is  negative, *base* must be relatively prime to *mod*. In that case,  `pow(inv_base,  -exp, mod)` is returned,  where *inv_base* is an inverse to *base* modulo *mod*. Here’s an example of computing an inverse for `38` modulo  `97`: `>>> pow(38, -1, mod=97) 23 >>> 23 * 38 % 97 == 1 True ` Changed in version 3.8: For [`int`](#int) operands, the three-argument form of `pow` now  allows the second argument to be negative, permitting computation of modular  inverses. Changed in version 3.9: Allow  keyword arguments. Formerly, only positional arguments were  supported.

## `print`(**objects*, *sep=' '*, *end='\n'*, *file=sys.stdout*, *flush=False*) 

  Print *objects* to the text stream *file*, separated by  *sep* and followed by *end*. *sep*, *end*,  *file* and *flush*, if present, must be given as keyword  arguments. All non-keyword arguments are converted to strings like [`str()`](stdtypes.html#str) does and written to the stream, separated by  *sep* and followed by *end*. Both *sep* and *end*  must be strings; they can also be `None`, which  means to use the default values. If no *objects* are given, [`print()`](#print) will just write *end*. The *file* argument must be an object with a `write(string)`  method; if it is not present or `None`, [`sys.stdout`](sys.html#sys.stdout) will be used. Since printed arguments are  converted to text strings, [`print()`](#print) cannot be used with binary mode file  objects. For these, use `file.write(...)` instead. Whether output is buffered is usually determined by *file*, but if the  *flush* keyword argument is true, the stream is forcibly flushed. Changed in version 3.3: Added  the *flush* keyword argument.

## *class* `property`(*fget=None*, *fset=None*, *fdel=None*, *doc=None*) 

  Return a property attribute. *fget* is a function for getting an attribute value. *fset* is  a function for setting an attribute value. *fdel* is a function for  deleting an attribute value. And *doc* creates a docstring for the  attribute. A typical use is to define a managed attribute `x`: `class C:    def __init__(self):        self._x = None     def getx(self):        return self._x     def setx(self, value):        self._x = value     def delx(self):        del self._x     x = property(getx, setx, delx, "I'm the 'x' property.") ` If *c* is an instance of *C*, `c.x` will  invoke the getter, `c.x = value` will invoke the setter and `del c.x` the deleter. If given, *doc* will be the docstring of the property attribute.  Otherwise, the property will copy *fget*’s docstring (if it exists). This  makes it possible to create read-only properties easily using [`property()`](#property) as a [decorator](../glossary.html#term-decorator): `class Parrot:    def __init__(self):        self._voltage = 100000     @property    def voltage(self):        """Get the current voltage."""        return self._voltage ` The `@property` decorator turns the `voltage()` method into a “getter” for a read-only  attribute with the same name, and it sets the docstring for *voltage* to  “Get the current voltage.” A property object has `getter`, `setter`, and `deleter` methods usable as decorators that create a copy  of the property with the corresponding accessor function set to the decorated  function. This is best explained with an example: `class C:    def __init__(self):        self._x = None     @property    def x(self):        """I'm the 'x' property."""        return self._x     @x.setter    def x(self, value):        self._x = value     @x.deleter    def x(self):        del self._x ` This code is exactly equivalent to the first example. Be sure to give the  additional functions the same name as the original property (`x` in this  case.) The returned property object also has the attributes `fget`, `fset`, and  `fdel`  corresponding to the constructor arguments. Changed in version 3.5: The  docstrings of property objects are now writeable.



## `range`(*stop*) 

## `range`(*start*, *stop*[, *step*]) 

  Rather than being a function, [`range`](stdtypes.html#range) is actually an immutable sequence type, as  documented in [Ranges](stdtypes.html#typesseq-range)  and [Sequence Types — list, tuple,  range](stdtypes.html#typesseq).

## `repr`(*object*) 

  Return a string containing a printable representation of an object. For many  types, this function makes an attempt to return a string that would yield an  object with the same value when passed to [`eval()`](#eval), otherwise the representation is a string  enclosed in angle brackets that contains the name of the type of the object  together with additional information often including the name and address of the  object. A class can control what this function returns for its instances by  defining a [`__repr__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__repr__) method.

## `reversed`(*seq*) 

  Return a reverse [iterator](../glossary.html#term-iterator). *seq* must be an object  which has a [`__reversed__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__reversed__) method or supports the sequence  protocol (the [`__len__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__len__) method and the [`__getitem__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__getitem__) method with integer arguments starting  at `0`).

## `round`(*number*[, *ndigits*]) 

  Return *number* rounded to *ndigits* precision after the  decimal point. If *ndigits* is omitted or is `None`, it  returns the nearest integer to its input. For the built-in types supporting [`round()`](#round), values are rounded to the closest multiple  of 10 to the power minus *ndigits*; if two multiples are equally close,  rounding is done toward the even choice (so, for example, both `round(0.5)`  and `round(-0.5)` are `0`, and `round(1.5)` is  `2`). Any  integer value is valid for *ndigits* (positive, zero, or negative). The  return value is an integer if *ndigits* is omitted or `None`.  Otherwise the return value has the same type as *number*. For a general Python object `number`, `round` delegates to `number.__round__`. Note The behavior of [`round()`](#round) for floats can be surprising: for example,  `round(2.675,  2)` gives `2.67` instead  of the expected `2.68`. This is not a bug: it’s a result of the fact that  most decimal fractions can’t be represented exactly as a float. See [Floating Point Arithmetic: Issues and Limitations](../tutorial/floatingpoint.html#tut-fp-issues)  for more information.



## *class* `set`([*iterable*]) 

  Return a new [`set`](stdtypes.html#set) object, optionally with elements taken from  *iterable*. `set` is a built-in class. See [`set`](stdtypes.html#set) and [Set Types — set,  frozenset](stdtypes.html#types-set) for documentation about this class. For other containers see the built-in [`frozenset`](stdtypes.html#frozenset), [`list`](stdtypes.html#list), [`tuple`](stdtypes.html#tuple), and [`dict`](stdtypes.html#dict) classes, as well as the [`collections`](collections.html#module-collections) module.

## `setattr`(*object*, *name*, *value*) 

  This is the counterpart of [`getattr()`](#getattr). The arguments are an object, a string and  an arbitrary value. The string may name an existing attribute or a new  attribute. The function assigns the value to the attribute, provided the object  allows it. For example, `setattr(x, 'foobar', 123)` is equivalent to `x.foobar = 123`.

## *class* `slice`(*stop*) 

## *class* `slice`(*start*, *stop*[, *step*]) 

  Return a [slice](../glossary.html#term-slice) object representing the set of  indices specified by `range(start, stop, step)`. The *start* and *step* arguments  default to `None`. Slice objects have read-only data attributes `start`, `stop` and `step` which merely return the argument values (or their  default). They have no other explicit functionality; however they are used by  Numerical Python and other third party extensions. Slice objects are also  generated when extended indexing syntax is used. For example: `a[start:stop:step]` or `a[start:stop, i]`. See [`itertools.islice()`](itertools.html#itertools.islice) for an alternate version that  returns an iterator.

## `sorted`(*iterable*, ***, *key=None*, *reverse=False*) 

  Return a new sorted list from the items in *iterable*. Has two optional arguments which must be specified as keyword arguments. *key* specifies a function of one argument that is used to extract a  comparison key from each element in *iterable* (for example, `key=str.lower`). The default value is `None` (compare  the elements directly). *reverse* is a boolean value. If set to `True`, then  the list elements are sorted as if each comparison were reversed. Use [`functools.cmp_to_key()`](functools.html#functools.cmp_to_key) to convert an old-style  *cmp* function to a *key* function. The built-in [`sorted()`](#sorted) function is guaranteed to be stable. A sort  is stable if it guarantees not to change the relative order of elements that  compare equal — this is helpful for sorting in multiple passes (for example,  sort by department, then by salary grade). For sorting examples and a brief sorting tutorial, see [Sorting HOW TO](../howto/sorting.html#sortinghowto).

## `@``staticmethod` 

  Transform a method into a static method. A static method does not receive an implicit first argument. To declare a  static method, use this idiom: `class C:    @staticmethod    def f(arg1, arg2, ...): ... ` The `@staticmethod` form is a function [decorator](../glossary.html#term-decorator) – see [Function definitions](../reference/compound_stmts.html#function) for details. A static method can be called either on the class (such as `C.f()`) or on  an instance (such as `C().f()`). Static methods in Python are similar to those found in Java or C++. Also see  [`classmethod()`](#classmethod) for a variant that is useful for  creating alternate class constructors. Like all decorators, it is also possible to call `staticmethod`  as a regular function and do something with its result. This is needed in some  cases where you need a reference to a function from a class body and you want to  avoid the automatic transformation to instance method. For these cases, use this  idiom: `class C:    builtin_open = staticmethod(open) ` For more information on static methods, see [The standard  type hierarchy](../reference/datamodel.html#types).



## *class* `str`(*object=''*) 

## *class* `str`(*object=b''*, *encoding='utf-8'*, *errors='strict'*) 

  Return a [`str`](stdtypes.html#str) version of *object*. See [`str()`](stdtypes.html#str) for details. `str`  is the built-in string [class](../glossary.html#term-class). For general information about  strings, see [Text Sequence Type — str](stdtypes.html#textseq).

## `sum`(*iterable*, */*, *start=0*) 

  Sums *start* and the items of an *iterable* from left to right  and returns the total. The *iterable*’s items are normally numbers, and  the start value is not allowed to be a string. For some use cases, there are good alternatives to [`sum()`](#sum). The preferred, fast way to concatenate a  sequence of strings is by calling `''.join(sequence)`. To add floating point values with  extended precision, see [`math.fsum()`](math.html#math.fsum). To concatenate a series of iterables,  consider using [`itertools.chain()`](itertools.html#itertools.chain). Changed in version 3.8: The  *start* parameter can be specified as a keyword  argument.

## `super`([*type*[, *object-or-type*]]) 

  Return a proxy object that delegates method calls to a parent or sibling  class of *type*. This is useful for accessing inherited methods that have  been overridden in a class. The *object-or-type* determines the [method resolution order](../glossary.html#term-method-resolution-order) to be searched. The  search starts from the class right after the *type*. For example, if [`__mro__`](stdtypes.html#class.__mro__) of *object-or-type* is `D -> B ->  C -> A  -> object` and the value  of *type* is `B`, then [`super()`](#super) searches `C -> A ->  object`. The [`__mro__`](stdtypes.html#class.__mro__) attribute of the *object-or-type*  lists the method resolution search order used by both [`getattr()`](#getattr) and [`super()`](#super). The attribute is dynamic and can change  whenever the inheritance hierarchy is updated. If the second argument is omitted, the super object returned is unbound. If  the second argument is an object, `isinstance(obj,  type)` must be true. If the second argument is a  type, `issubclass(type2, type)` must be  true (this is useful for classmethods). There are two typical use cases for *super*. In a class hierarchy with  single inheritance, *super* can be used to refer to parent classes  without naming them explicitly, thus making the code more maintainable. This use  closely parallels the use of *super* in other programming languages. The second use case is to support cooperative multiple inheritance in a  dynamic execution environment. This use case is unique to Python and is not  found in statically compiled languages or languages that only support single  inheritance. This makes it possible to implement “diamond diagrams” where  multiple base classes implement the same method. Good design dictates that this  method have the same calling signature in every case (because the order of calls  is determined at runtime, because that order adapts to changes in the class  hierarchy, and because that order can include sibling classes that are unknown  prior to runtime). For both use cases, a typical superclass call looks like this: `class C(B):    def method(self, arg):        super().method(arg)    # This does the same thing as:                               # super(C, self).method(arg) ` In addition to method lookups, [`super()`](#super) also works for attribute lookups. One  possible use case for this is calling [descriptors](../glossary.html#term-descriptor) in a parent or sibling  class. Note that [`super()`](#super) is implemented as part of the binding  process for explicit dotted attribute lookups such as `super().__getitem__(name)`. It does so by implementing  its own [`__getattribute__()`](../reference/datamodel.html#object.__getattribute__) method for searching classes in a  predictable order that supports cooperative multiple inheritance. Accordingly,  [`super()`](#super) is undefined for implicit lookups using  statements or operators such as `super()[name]`. Also note that, aside from the zero argument form, [`super()`](#super) is not limited to use inside methods. The  two argument form specifies the arguments exactly and makes the appropriate  references. The zero argument form only works inside a class definition, as the  compiler fills in the necessary details to correctly retrieve the class being  defined, as well as accessing the current instance for ordinary methods. For practical suggestions on how to design cooperative classes using [`super()`](#super), see [guide to using super()](https://rhettinger.wordpress.com/2011/05/26/super-considered-super/).



## `tuple`([*iterable*]) 

  Rather than being a function, [`tuple`](stdtypes.html#tuple) is actually an immutable sequence type, as  documented in [Tuples](stdtypes.html#typesseq-tuple)  and [Sequence Types — list, tuple,  range](stdtypes.html#typesseq).

## *class* `type`(*object*) 

## *class* `type`(*name*, *bases*, *dict*) 

  With one argument, return the type of an *object*. The  return value is a type object and generally the same object as returned by [`object.__class__`](stdtypes.html#instance.__class__). The [`isinstance()`](#isinstance) built-in function is recommended for  testing the type of an object, because it takes subclasses into account. With three arguments, return a new type object. This is essentially a dynamic  form of the [`class`](../reference/compound_stmts.html#class) statement. The *name* string is the  class name and becomes the [`__name__`](stdtypes.html#definition.__name__) attribute; the *bases* tuple  itemizes the base classes and becomes the [`__bases__`](stdtypes.html#class.__bases__) attribute; and the *dict*  dictionary is the namespace containing definitions for class body and is copied  to a standard dictionary to become the [`__dict__`](stdtypes.html#object.__dict__) attribute. For example, the following two  statements create identical [`type`](#type) objects: `>>> class X: ...     a = 1 ... >>> X = type('X', (object,), dict(a=1)) ` See also [Type  Objects](stdtypes.html#bltin-type-objects). Changed in version 3.6:  Subclasses of [`type`](#type) which don’t override `type.__new__`  may no longer use the one-argument form to get the type of an  object.

## `vars`([*object*]) 

  Return the [`__dict__`](stdtypes.html#object.__dict__) attribute for a module, class, instance, or  any other object with a [`__dict__`](stdtypes.html#object.__dict__) attribute. Objects such as modules and instances have an updateable [`__dict__`](stdtypes.html#object.__dict__) attribute; however, other objects may have  write restrictions on their [`__dict__`](stdtypes.html#object.__dict__) attributes (for example, classes use a [`types.MappingProxyType`](types.html#types.MappingProxyType) to prevent direct dictionary  updates). Without an argument, [`vars()`](#vars) acts like [`locals()`](#locals). Note, the locals dictionary is only useful  for reads since updates to the locals dictionary are ignored.

## `zip`(**iterables*) 

  Make an iterator that aggregates elements from each of the iterables. Returns an iterator of tuples, where the *i*-th tuple contains the  *i*-th element from each of the argument sequences or iterables. The  iterator stops when the shortest input iterable is exhausted. With a single  iterable argument, it returns an iterator of 1-tuples. With no arguments, it  returns an empty iterator. Equivalent to: `def zip(*iterables):    # zip('ABCD', 'xy') --> Ax By    sentinel = object()    iterators = [iter(it) for it in iterables]    while iterators:        result = []        for it in iterators:            elem = next(it, sentinel)            if elem is sentinel:                return            result.append(elem)        yield tuple(result) ` The left-to-right evaluation order of the iterables is guaranteed. This makes  possible an idiom for clustering a data series into n-length groups using `zip(*[iter(s)]*n)`. This repeats the *same*  iterator `n` times so that each output tuple has the result of  `n` calls  to the iterator. This has the effect of dividing the input into n-length  chunks. [`zip()`](#zip) should only be used with unequal length inputs  when you don’t care about trailing, unmatched values from the longer iterables.  If those values are important, use [`itertools.zip_longest()`](itertools.html#itertools.zip_longest) instead. [`zip()`](#zip) in conjunction with the `*` operator  can be used to unzip a list: `>>> x = [1, 2, 3] >>> y = [4, 5, 6] >>> zipped = zip(x, y) >>> list(zipped) [(1, 4), (2, 5), (3, 6)] >>> x2, y2 = zip(*zip(x, y)) >>> x == list(x2) and y == list(y2) True `

## `__import__`(*name*, *globals=None*, *locals=None*, *fromlist=()*, *level=0*) 

  Note This is an advanced function that is not needed in everyday Python  programming, unlike [`importlib.import_module()`](importlib.html#importlib.import_module). This function is invoked by the [`import`](../reference/simple_stmts.html#import) statement. It can be replaced (by importing  the [`builtins`](builtins.html#module-builtins) module and assigning to `builtins.__import__`) in order to change semantics of the  `import` statement, but doing so is  **strongly** discouraged as it is usually simpler to use import  hooks (see [**PEP 302**](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0302)) to  attain the same goals and does not cause issues with code which assumes the  default import implementation is in use. Direct use of [`__import__()`](#__import__) is also discouraged in favor of [`importlib.import_module()`](importlib.html#importlib.import_module). The function imports the module *name*, potentially using the given  *globals* and *locals* to determine how to interpret the name in a  package context. The *fromlist* gives the names of objects or submodules  that should be imported from the module given by *name*. The standard  implementation does not use its *locals* argument at all, and uses its  *globals* only to determine the package context of the [`import`](../reference/simple_stmts.html#import) statement. *level* specifies whether to use absolute or relative imports. `0` (the  default) means only perform absolute imports. Positive values for *level*  indicate the number of parent directories to search relative to the directory of  the module calling [`__import__()`](#__import__) (see [**PEP 328**](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0328) for  the details). When the *name* variable is of the form `package.module`, normally, the top-level package (the  name up till the first dot) is returned, *not* the module named by  *name*. However, when a non-empty *fromlist* argument is given,  the module named by *name* is returned. For example, the statement `import spam` results in bytecode  resembling the following code: `spam = __import__('spam', globals(), locals(), [], 0) ` The statement `import spam.ham` results in this  call: `spam = __import__('spam.ham', globals(), locals(), [], 0) ` Note how [`__import__()`](#__import__) returns the toplevel module here  because this is the object that is bound to a name by the [`import`](../reference/simple_stmts.html#import) statement. On the other hand, the statement `from spam.ham import eggs, sausage as  saus` results in `_temp = __import__('spam.ham', globals(), locals(), ['eggs', 'sausage'], 0) eggs = _temp.eggs saus = _temp.sausage ` Here, the `spam.ham` module is returned from [`__import__()`](#__import__). From this object, the names to import  are retrieved and assigned to their respective names. If you simply want to import a module (potentially within a package) by name,  use [`importlib.import_module()`](importlib.html#importlib.import_module). Changed in version 3.3: Negative  values for *level* are no longer supported (which also changes the  default value to 0).

Footnotes

- [1](#id1) 

  Note that the parser only accepts the Unix-style end of line convention. If  you are reading the code from a file, make sure to use newline conversion mode  to convert Windows or Mac-style newlines.